Dec 03,2020

Draw a plot that states the whole proces: sampling ---> assembly ---> coalescence like the ones in alvaro's papers. 

Dec 04,2020

Coalescence matrix where the diagonal is the result from coalescence between communities with the same leakage, and the upper diagonal is between communities with different leakage.
Actually, the matrix would not be upper diagonal because it wouldn't be simmetric. the element 1-2 would be the invasion of more cohseive communities form leakage value 1, to less cohesive communities from leakage value 2. On the contrary, the element 2-1 would be the invasion of more cohesive communities from leakage value 2 to less cohesive communities from leakage value 1. This would leave the exploration of high high invasions, and low low invasions, which actually make a lot of sense. 
Therefore, I could have two matrices. The first has elements A_ij, that represent coalescence events in which highly cohesive communities with leakage value i invade lower cohesive communities with leakage value j.The second one has elements B_ij, that represent coalescence events where  randomly sampled communities with leakage value i invade randomly sampled communities with leakage value i
Optimally, I would only want the second matrix, because the best thing would be that my dynamics show for randomly sampled communities, so in the diagonal I would have the effect within the same leakage, and in the off-diagonals I would have the effect with a different leakage value effect

Idea for a plot: To prove that your k_c and k_f parametrizations make sense, plot a cloud of points with  k_c and k_f = 0, and compare with the plot when they are allowd to travel the parameter space. Overlay to see that one contains the other, and thus, it is a sensible parametrization.

Idea for a plot: track changes in average l in a mixing event when an extinction happen. what happens to l, when members of communities with different leakage factor interact?

Dec 09,2020

The diagonal of matrix A_ii would be looking at the effect of network cohesion on coalescence (since communities of different levels of cohesion (high, and low) are being coalesced). The non-diagonal elements A_ij would be looking at the mixed effect of having different l's and different cohesion levels.
The matrix B_ij would be looking at the same thing, but coalescence is performed by drawing communities at random. The effect would be less exagerated, but hopefully would still be there. But then this matrix would be simetric! 
Okay, lets stick with A_ij, it is better. 
